<h1 align="center" > Crop Production Optimization</h1>
<b> REST API - </b> [Crop-Production-Optimization-api](https://48r4nqrd1l.execute-api.us-east-1.amazonaws.com/Crop-production-api/predict_func)

## Overview
#### It is a website which predict the best crop to be grown on the field under different soil and climatic conditions. 
#### Using AWS API to use the ML model endpoint hosted by SageMaker using serverless technology.

----------------------------
## Problem Statement 
For farmers, agriculture is their primary source of income. They grow crops in thier fields and sold it to markets for money. The more is the crop, more is the money and profit. 

But they don't know which crop has to grown in their fields according to it's soil properties and climatic condition like nitrogen and phosphorus value of soil, temperature,humidity in that region.

----------------------------
## Goal 
To make a Machine Learning model that predicts best crops to be grown under different soil and climatic condition.

----------------------------
## How to use the Api
To use the api go to [Postman](https://www.postman.com/)

To get the data from the api select the post method and send data as follows:
```
{
    "nitrogen": any int value,
    "phosphorus": any int value,
    "potassium": any int value,
    "temperature": any int value,
    "humidity": any int value,
    "ph": any int value,
    "rainfall": any int value
}
```
<b>Result</b> - You will get the best crop name.

----------------------------
## Technical Aspects

#### About the dataset
```
N - Nitrogen value in soil
P - Phosphorus value in soil
K - Potassium value in soil
Temperature - Local Temperature of that area
Humidity - Humidity in nature
Rainfall - Average rainfall in that region
Ph - Acidic value of the soil
Crops - Crop that has to be Grown.
```
#### About Model
- It is a xgboost model provided by aws sagemaker . 
- A logistic model is also created for host website on heroku.


#### About App
- App build on Flask Framework
- Uses Html and Css for frontend UI

#### About Deployment
1. On Aws Services
- It uses lambda function to envoke the model
- And used AWS APIGetway for interaction.
2. On Heroku Plateform
- Buid Docker Container
- Deploy Contaier to Heroku

----------------------------
## Setup and Installation

Open your terminal and change the directory to project folder
```
$ cd [your-project-folder]
```
Clone the repo in your exiting project folder
```
$ git clone https://github.com/g0urav-hustler/Crop-Production-Optimization.git
```
Making virual environment 
```
$ python3 -m [your-virtual-env-name] [project-directory-path]
```
Activate virtual environment 
```
$ source [your-virtual-env-name]/bin/activate
```
Install all the requirements
```
$ pip install -r requirements.txt
```
Now your setup has been completed, you can run this app by
```
python app.py
```
----------------------------
## Repository Overview
```
├── data
│   └──agricultural_data.csv
├── models
│   └──logistic_regression_model.pkl
├── notebooks
│   └──crop_data_analysis.ipynb
│   └──crop_production-optimizer-notebook.ipynb
├── readme resources
│   └──web image.png
├── static 
│   └──style.css
├── templates
│   └── index.html
├── Dockerfile
├── README.md
├── app.py
├── logic_regression.py
├── crop-production-lambda-function.py
└── requirements.txt
```

----------------------------
## Deploy Model on AWS Services

**Note -** When you creating the endpoint using sagemaker , don't run the delete_endpoint code. It just delete the sagmaker end you created and doesn't envoke in lambda function.

**Creating Lambda function to call sagemaker endpoint**
1.  On the Lambda console, on the  **Functions**  page, choose  **Create function**.
2.  For  **Function name**, enter a name.
3.  For  **Runtime**¸ choose your runtime.
4.  For  **Execution role**¸ select  **Create a new role**  or **Use an existing role**.
5. Whether you created a new role or using the existing role, make sure to include the following policy, which gives your function permission to invoke a model endpoint:
```
{ "Version": "2012-10-17", "Statement": [ { "Sid": "VisualEditor0", "Effect": "Allow", "Action": "sagemaker:InvokeEndpoint", "Resource": "*" } ] }
```
6. Write lambda fuction code as written in the [crop-production-lambda-fuction.py](https://github.com/g0urav-hustler/Crop-Production-Optimization/blob/master/crop-production-lambda-fuction.py "crop-production-lambda-fuction.py") . 
7. `ENDPOINT_NAME` is an environment variable that holds the name of the SageMaker model endpoint you just deployed using the sample notebook. Go to the SageMaker console to find the end point name generated by SageMaker. Enter the name as the environment variable value.

**Create a Rest Api**
You can create an API by following these steps:

1.  On the API Gateway console, choose the  **REST API**
2.  Choose  **Build**.
3.  Select  **New API**.
4.  For  **API name**¸ enter a name (for example,  `Crop-production-api`).
5.  Leave  **Endpoint Type**  as  **Regional**.
6.  Choose  **Create API**.
7.  On the  **Actions**  menu, choose  **Create resource**.
8.  Enter a name for the resource (for example,  `crop-production-resource`).
9.  After the resource is created, on the  **Actions**  menu, choose  **Create Method**  to create a POST method.
10.  For  **Integration type**, select  **Lambda Function**. 
11.  For  **Lambda function**, enter the function you created.

When the setup is complete, you can deploy the API to a stage.

12.  On the  **Actions**  menu, choose  **Deploy API**.
13.  Create a new stage called test.
14.  Choose  **Deploy**.
Last step gives you the invoke URL.

----------------------------
## Dockerization and Deployment
The app has deploy on heroku platform using a docker container.

**Note -** To deploy in heroku it uses logistic regression model. Run the logic_regression.py file to make the logistic regression model and then deploy it to heroku.

Pre-requisite: Docker and Heroku installed on your computer.

To install Docker, see [Reference](https://runnable.com/docker/getting-started/)

To install Heroku see [Reference](https://devcenter.heroku.com/articles/heroku-cli)

Docker command to build the docker container
```
$ docker build -t [your-app-name]:latest .
 ```
To run the docker container
``` 
$ docker run -p80:8000 [your-app-name]
```
To see docker container 
```
$ docker images
```
Login to your heroku account
```
$ heroku container:login
```
Create a web app on heroku
```
$ heroku create [your-app-name]
```
Tag your docker container as heroku web app
```
$ docker tag [your-app-name]:latest registry.heroku.com/[your-app-name]/web
```
Pushing the docker container on the web
```
$ docker push registry.heroku.com/[your-app-name]/web
```
Releasing the web app
```
$ heroku container:release web -a [your-app-name]
```

----------------------------

## License
MIT License

Copyright (c) 2021 Gourav Chouhan

Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining a copy
of this software and associated documentation files (the "Software"), to deal
in the Software without restriction, including without limitation the rights
to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute, sublicense, and/or sell
copies of the Software, and to permit persons to whom the Software is
furnished to do so, subject to the following conditions:

The above copyright notice and this permission notice shall be included in all
copies or substantial portions of the Software.

THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR
IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY,
FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE
AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER
LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM,
OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS IN THE
SOFTWARE.

----------------------------
### If you like this repo and it is useful, please don't forget to give a ⭐.
